HackAssembler is a rudimentary assembler that converts Hack assembly code into binary machine language. I built the program for a class: [Building a Modern Computer From First Principles](https://www.nand2tetris.org). Professors Noam Nisan and Shimon Schocken built a virtual computer called Hack that simulates hardware production and operation. HackAssembler converts programs, such as a Pong game, into binary language that then can be passed to the Hack computer. See [Pong.hack](https://github.com/SamuelHaupt/projects/blob/main/HackAssembler/Pong.hack) for the binary code. The game is then operated.

The binary represents either two binary codes: `0vvv vvvv vvvv vvvv` and `111a cccc ccdd djjj`. The former binary code, with leftmost bit of 0, sets the A register, which can be used to set the location in memory or represent a physical value to be manipulated. In assembly language, `@5` is converted to `0000 0000 0000 0101` and so the A register is set to the binary representation of 5. The latter binary code has the leftmost bit of 1. `a` increases the amount of computations that can be performed on the arithemtic-logic unit (ALU) and `cccc cc` provides the actual computation. (For example, `0 0000 10` instructs the ALU to add the D register to the A register, whereas `1 0000 10` instructs the ALU to add together the contents of the D register and Memory register addressed by the A register.) `dd d` specifies the destination to store the computed value, such as the A register or D register. `jjj` indicates a jump based on a specific condition being met, such as 'If output is positive (`> 0`), then jump to address in A register.'

HackAssembler provides an early glimpse into my product development and design processes prior to formal training.